README.md, before:

# Hyperledger Fabric EVM chaincode

**This project has been archived for lack of interest within the community.**

This is the project for the Hyperledger Fabric chaincode, integrating the
Burrow EVM. At its essence, this project enables one to use the Hyperledger
Fabric permissioned blockchain platform to interact with Ethereum smart
contracts written in an EVM compatible language such as Solidity or Vyper.

The integration is achieved through the EVM chaincode (EVMCC) and Fab3. The
EVMCC wraps the Hyperledger Burrow EVM package in a Go chaincode shim and maps
the various methods between the peer and the EVM itself. The EVMCC acts as the
smart contract runtime and stores the deployed contract code on the ledger under
the `evmcc` namespace.

The second piece is Fab3, a web3 provider, which is a proxy that implements a
subset of the Ethereum compliant JSON RPC interfaces, so that users could use
tools such as Web3.js to interact with smart contracts running in the Fabric
EVM. Using the Fabric GO SDK, Fab3 is able to communicate with the Fabric
network to interact with the EVMCC. Without Fab3, users can still interact with
the EVMCC using the Fabric APIs.

Used together, the EVMCC and Fab3 recreates the Ethereum smart contract runtime
and developer experience. Applications that make use of the Ethereum JSON RPC
API and EVM smart contracts should be able to stay unchanged and can be brought
to use with Hyperledger Fabric.

![EndToEnd](EndToEnd.png)

# Table of Contents
- [Deploying the Fabric EVM Chaincode (EVMCC)](#Deploying-the-Fabric-EVM-Chaincode-(EVMCC))
- [Running Fab3](#Running-Fab3)
- [Tutorial](#Tutorial)
- [Testing](#Testing)
- [Contributions](#Contributions)
- [Current Dependencies](#Current-Dependencies)

We hang out in the
[#fabric-evm channel](https://chat.hyperledger.org/channel/fabric-evm). We are
always interested in feedback and help in development and testing! For more
information about contributing look below at the [Contributions](#Contributions)
section.


## Deploying the Fabric EVM Chaincode (EVMCC)

This chaincode can be deployed like any other user chaincode to Hyperledger
Fabric. The chaincode has no instantiation arguments.

When installing, point to the EVMCC [main package](https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric-chaincode-evm/tree/main/evmcc). Below is an example of installation and
instantiation through the peer cli.
```
 peer chaincode install -n evmcc -l golang -v 0 -p github.com/hyperledger/fabric-chaincode-evm/evmcc
 peer chaincode instantiate -n evmcc -v 0 -C <channel-name> -c '{"Args":[]}' -o <orderer-address> --tls --cafile <orderer-ca>
```

The interaction is the same as with any other chaincode, except that
the first argument of a chaincode invoke is the address for the contract and
the second argument is the input you typically provide for an Ethereum
transaction. In general the inputs match the `To` and `Data` fields in an
ethereum transaction. Typically the `To` field is the contract address that
contains the desired transaction. The `Data` field is the function to be invoked
concatenated with the encoded parameters expected.
```
peer chaincode invoke -n evmcc -C <channel-name> -c '{"Args":[<to>,<data>]}' -o <orderer-address> --tls --cafile <orderer-ca>

# Contract Invocation
peer chaincode invoke -n evmcc -C <channel-name> -c '{"Args":[<contract-address>,<function-with-encoded-params>]}' -o <orderer-address> --tls --cafile <orderer-ca>
```
A special case of the ethereum transaction is contract creation. The `To` field
is the zero address and the `Data` field is the compiled bytecode of the smart
contract to be deployed.
```
# Contract Creation
peer chaincode invoke -n evmcc -C <channel-name> -c '{"Args":["0000000000000000000000000000000000000000",<compiled-bytecode>]}' -o <orderer-address> --tls --cafile <orderer-ca>
```

The only actions that do not follow the above pattern are to query for contract
runtime code and accounts.
```
# To query for the user account address that is generated from the user public key
peer chaincode query -n evmcc -C <channel-name> -c '{"Args":["account"]}'

# To query for the runtime bytecode for a contract
peer chaincode query -n evmcc -C <channel-name> -c '{"Args":["getCode", "<contract-address>"]}'
```

**NOTE** No Ether or token balance is associated with user accounts, so Ethereum
smart contracts that require a native token cannot be migrated to Fabric
and must be rewritten. Token contracts such as those that follow the ERC 20 standard
can still be deployed to the EVMCC. Consequently since no balances exist, user
accounts are not stored on the ledger and the addresses are generated on the fly
when needed. This should not affect Ethereum smart contract execution. If a
contract stores an address, it will be stored under that contract's data.

**NOTE** In the current implementation of the EVMCC, the opcode `BLOCKHASH` is
not supported. Therefore contracts that use the `blockhash(uint blockNumber)`
function will result in an error.

## Running Fab3

Fab3 is a web3 provider that allows the use of ethereum tools such as Web3.js
and the Remix IDE to interact with the Ethereum Smart Contracts that have been
deployed through the Fabric EVM Chaincode.

For the most up to date instruction set look at the [ethservice](fab3/ethservice.go)
and [netservice](fab3/netservice.go)
implementations. For details about limitations and implementations of the the
instructions look at the [Fab3 Instructions](Fab3_Instructions.md).

To create the Fab3 binary, this repository must be checked out in the [GOPATH](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/GOPATH)
```
mkdir -p $(go env GOPATH)/src/github.com/hyperledger/
git clone https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric-chaincode-evm.git $(go env GOPATH)/src/github.com/hyperledger/fabric-chaincode-evm
cd $(go env GOPATH)/src/github.com/hyperledger/fabric-chaincode-evm
```
Fab3 requires golang version 1.11 and up.

Run the following at the root of this repository:
```
make fab3
```
A binary named `fab3` will be created in the `bin` directory.

To run Fab3, the user needs to provide a Fabric SDK Config and Fabric user
information. To specify the Fabric user, the organization and
user id needs to be provided which corresponds to the credentials provided in
the SDK config. We provide a sample [config](examples/first-network-sdk-config.yaml)
that can be used with the first network example from the
[fabric-samples](https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric-samples) repository.
The credentials specified in the config, are expected to be in the directory
format that the [cryptogen](https://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/release-1.4/commands/cryptogen.html)
binary outputs.

The expected inputs can be provided to fab3 as environment variables or flags.
Flags will take precedence over the environment variables.

```
fab3 is a web3 provider used to interact with the EVM chaincode on a Fabric Network.
The flags provided will be honored over the corresponding environment variables.

Usage:
  fab3 [flags]

Flags:
  -i, --ccid string      ID of the EVM Chaincode deployed in your fabric network.
                         The CCID to be used in by fab3 can also be set by the FAB3_CCID environment variable. (default "evmcc")

  -C, --channel string   Channel to be used for the transactions.
                         This flag is required if FAB3_CHANNEL is not set

  -c, --config string    Path to a compatible Fabric SDK Go config file.
                         This flag is required if FAB3_CONFIG is not set

  -h, --help             help for fab3

  -o, --org string       Organization of the specified user.
                         This flag is required if FAB3_ORG is not set

  -p, --port int         Port that Fab3 will be running on.
                         The listening port can also be set by the FAB3_PORT environment variable. (default 5000)

  -u, --user string      User identity being used for the proxy (Matches the users' names in the
                         crypto-config directory specified in the config).
                         This flag is required if FAB3_USER is not set
```

## Tutorial

We have a [tutorial](examples/EVM_Smart_Contracts.md) that runs through the
basic setup of the EVM chaincode as well as setting up fab3. It also covers
deploying a Solidity contract and interacting with it using the Web3.js node library.

## Testing

You can run the integration tests in which a sample Fabric Network is run and the
chaincode is installed with the CCID: `evmcc`.
```
make integration-test
```
The [end-2-end](integration/e2e/e2e_test.go)
test is derivative of the hyperledger/fabric/integration/e2e test. You can
compare them to see what is different.

The [fab3](integration/fab3/fab3_test.go)
test focuses on the JSON RPC API compatibility. The [web3](integration/fab3/web3_e2e_test.js)
test uses the Web3 node.js library as a client to run tests against fab3 and the
EVMCC.

## Contributions
Pull requests are now accepted on github. When submitting a pull request, please
include the JIRA number associated with your JIRA work item in the commit
message title.

To report a new issue, open a ticket in the Hyperledger Fabric [JIRA](https://jira.hyperledger.org/projects/FABCE/issues)
under the Fabric Chaincode EVM (FABCE) project.

## Current Dependencies
- Hyperledger Fabric [v1.4](https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric/releases/tag/v1.4.0). EVMCC can be run on Fabric 1.0 and newer.
- Hyperledger Fabric Go SDK [1.0.0-alpha5](https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric-sdk-go/releases/tag/v1.0.0-alpha5)
- Minimum of Go 1.11 is required to compile Fab3.

[![Creative Commons License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)<br>
This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

Commit message:

script to build zip file

README.md, after:

# Hyperledger Fabric EVM chaincode

This is the project for the Hyperledger Fabric chaincode, integrating the
Burrow EVM. At its essence, this project enables one to use the Hyperledger
Fabric permissioned blockchain platform to interact with Ethereum smart
contracts written in an EVM compatible language such as Solidity or Vyper.

The integration is achieved through the EVM chaincode (EVMCC) and Fab3. The
EVMCC wraps the Hyperledger Burrow EVM package in a Go chaincode shim and maps
the various methods between the peer and the EVM itself. The EVMCC acts as the
smart contract runtime and stores the deployed contract code on the ledger under
the `evmcc` namespace.

The second piece is Fab3, a web3 provider, which is a proxy that implements a
subset of the Ethereum compliant JSON RPC interfaces, so that users could use
tools such as Web3.js to interact with smart contracts running in the Fabric
EVM. Using the Fabric GO SDK, Fab3 is able to communicate with the Fabric
network to interact with the EVMCC. Without Fab3, users can still interact with
the EVMCC using the Fabric APIs.

Used together, the EVMCC and Fab3 recreates the Ethereum smart contract runtime
and developer experience. Applications that make use of the Ethereum JSON RPC
API and EVM smart contracts should be able to stay unchanged and can be brought
to use with Hyperledger Fabric.

![EndToEnd](EndToEnd.png)

# Table of Contents
- [Making Code Changes to EVMCC Chaincode](#Making Code Changes to EVMCC Chaincode)
- [Building the EVMCC Chaincode](#Building the EVMCC Chaincode)
- [Deploying the Fabric EVM Chaincode (EVMCC)](#Deploying-the-Fabric-EVM-Chaincode-(EVMCC))
- [Running Fab3](#Running-Fab3)
- [Tutorial](#Tutorial)
- [Testing](#Testing)
- [Contributions](#Contributions)
- [Current Dependencies](#Current-Dependencies)

We hang out in the
[#fabric-evm channel](https://chat.hyperledger.org/channel/fabric-evm). We are
always interested in feedback and help in development and testing! For more
information about contributing look below at the [Contributions](#Contributions)
section.

## Making Code Changes to EVMCC Chaincode

 - Checkout the Repo [#fabric-chaincode-evm](https://github.com/RaghavKasturi/fabric-chaincode-evm)
 - Setup [#Access token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token) for your account
 - Make the necessary code changes
 - Navigate to the evmcc directory and run ```go mod vendor```
 - In case of any issue with go mod cache being corrupt, then follow the below steps
```
          go clean -modcache
          rm go.sum
          go mod tidy
```
 - Now, the vendor directory is expected to have pulled-in all the required dependencies (In GO world - "vendoring" the dependencies is now complete)
 - Commit and push these changes to the remote repository (**NOTE** : Essential to have the access token setup already)

## Building the EVMCC Chaincode

 - In order to build the chaincode zip file, navigate to scripts directory and run ```buildEvmccZip.sh```
 - The "evmcc.zip" file will be created, which can be used as is for deploying 

## Deploying the Fabric EVM Chaincode (EVMCC)

This chaincode can be deployed like any other user chaincode to Hyperledger
Fabric. The chaincode has no instantiation arguments.

When installing, point to the EVMCC [main package](https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric-chaincode-evm/tree/main/evmcc). Below is an example of installation and
instantiation through the peer cli.
```
 peer chaincode install -n evmcc -l golang -v 0 -p github.com/hyperledger/fabric-chaincode-evm/evmcc
 peer chaincode instantiate -n evmcc -v 0 -C <channel-name> -c '{"Args":[]}' -o <orderer-address> --tls --cafile <orderer-ca>
```

The interaction is the same as with any other chaincode, except that
the first argument of a chaincode invoke is the address for the contract and
the second argument is the input you typically provide for an Ethereum
transaction. In general the inputs match the `To` and `Data` fields in an
ethereum transaction. Typically the `To` field is the contract address that
contains the desired transaction. The `Data` field is the function to be invoked
concatenated with the encoded parameters expected.
```
peer chaincode invoke -n evmcc -C <channel-name> -c '{"Args":[<to>,<data>]}' -o <orderer-address> --tls --cafile <orderer-ca>

# Contract Invocation
peer chaincode invoke -n evmcc -C <channel-name> -c '{"Args":[<contract-address>,<function-with-encoded-params>]}' -o <orderer-address> --tls --cafile <orderer-ca>
```
A special case of the ethereum transaction is contract creation. The `To` field
is the zero address and the `Data` field is the compiled bytecode of the smart
contract to be deployed.
```
# Contract Creation
peer chaincode invoke -n evmcc -C <channel-name> -c '{"Args":["0000000000000000000000000000000000000000",<compiled-bytecode>]}' -o <orderer-address> --tls --cafile <orderer-ca>
```

The only actions that do not follow the above pattern are to query for contract
runtime code and accounts.
```
# To query for the user account address that is generated from the user public key
peer chaincode query -n evmcc -C <channel-name> -c '{"Args":["account"]}'

# To query for the runtime bytecode for a contract
peer chaincode query -n evmcc -C <channel-name> -c '{"Args":["getCode", "<contract-address>"]}'
```

**NOTE** No Ether or token balance is associated with user accounts, so Ethereum
smart contracts that require a native token cannot be migrated to Fabric
and must be rewritten. Token contracts such as those that follow the ERC 20 standard
can still be deployed to the EVMCC. Consequently since no balances exist, user
accounts are not stored on the ledger and the addresses are generated on the fly
when needed. This should not affect Ethereum smart contract execution. If a
contract stores an address, it will be stored under that contract's data.

**NOTE** In the current implementation of the EVMCC, the opcode `BLOCKHASH` is
not supported. Therefore contracts that use the `blockhash(uint blockNumber)`
function will result in an error.

## Running Fab3

Fab3 is a web3 provider that allows the use of ethereum tools such as Web3.js
and the Remix IDE to interact with the Ethereum Smart Contracts that have been
deployed through the Fabric EVM Chaincode.

For the most up to date instruction set look at the [ethservice](fab3/ethservice.go)
and [netservice](fab3/netservice.go)
implementations. For details about limitations and implementations of the the
instructions look at the [Fab3 Instructions](Fab3_Instructions.md).

To create the Fab3 binary, this repository must be checked out in the [GOPATH](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/GOPATH)
```
mkdir -p $(go env GOPATH)/src/github.com/hyperledger/
git clone https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric-chaincode-evm.git $(go env GOPATH)/src/github.com/hyperledger/fabric-chaincode-evm
cd $(go env GOPATH)/src/github.com/hyperledger/fabric-chaincode-evm
```
Fab3 requires golang version 1.11 and up.

Run the following at the root of this repository:
```
make fab3
```
A binary named `fab3` will be created in the `bin` directory.

To run Fab3, the user needs to provide a Fabric SDK Config and Fabric user
information. To specify the Fabric user, the organization and
user id needs to be provided which corresponds to the credentials provided in
the SDK config. We provide a sample [config](examples/first-network-sdk-config.yaml)
that can be used with the first network example from the
[fabric-samples](https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric-samples) repository.
The credentials specified in the config, are expected to be in the directory
format that the [cryptogen](https://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/release-1.4/commands/cryptogen.html)
binary outputs.

The expected inputs can be provided to fab3 as environment variables or flags.
Flags will take precedence over the environment variables.

```
fab3 is a web3 provider used to interact with the EVM chaincode on a Fabric Network.
The flags provided will be honored over the corresponding environment variables.

Usage:
  fab3 [flags]

Flags:
  -i, --ccid string      ID of the EVM Chaincode deployed in your fabric network.
                         The CCID to be used in by fab3 can also be set by the FAB3_CCID environment variable. (default "evmcc")

  -C, --channel string   Channel to be used for the transactions.
                         This flag is required if FAB3_CHANNEL is not set

  -c, --config string    Path to a compatible Fabric SDK Go config file.
                         This flag is required if FAB3_CONFIG is not set

  -h, --help             help for fab3

  -o, --org string       Organization of the specified user.
                         This flag is required if FAB3_ORG is not set

  -p, --port int         Port that Fab3 will be running on.
                         The listening port can also be set by the FAB3_PORT environment variable. (default 5000)

  -u, --user string      User identity being used for the proxy (Matches the users' names in the
                         crypto-config directory specified in the config).
                         This flag is required if FAB3_USER is not set
```

## Tutorial

We have a [tutorial](examples/EVM_Smart_Contracts.md) that runs through the
basic setup of the EVM chaincode as well as setting up fab3. It also covers
deploying a Solidity contract and interacting with it using the Web3.js node library.

## Testing

You can run the integration tests in which a sample Fabric Network is run and the
chaincode is installed with the CCID: `evmcc`.
```
make integration-test
```
The [end-2-end](integration/e2e/e2e_test.go)
test is derivative of the hyperledger/fabric/integration/e2e test. You can
compare them to see what is different.

The [fab3](integration/fab3/fab3_test.go)
test focuses on the JSON RPC API compatibility. The [web3](integration/fab3/web3_e2e_test.js)
test uses the Web3 node.js library as a client to run tests against fab3 and the
EVMCC.

## Contributions
Pull requests are now accepted on github. When submitting a pull request, please
include the JIRA number associated with your JIRA work item in the commit
message title.

To report a new issue, open a ticket in the Hyperledger Fabric [JIRA](https://jira.hyperledger.org/projects/FABCE/issues)
under the Fabric Chaincode EVM (FABCE) project.

## Current Dependencies
- Hyperledger Fabric [v1.4](https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric/releases/tag/v1.4.0). EVMCC can be run on Fabric 1.0 and newer.
- Hyperledger Fabric Go SDK [1.0.0-alpha5](https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric-sdk-go/releases/tag/v1.0.0-alpha5)
- Minimum of Go 1.11 is required to compile Fab3.

[![Creative Commons License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)<br>
This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)
